[WIP] ✨ Set up Copilot instructions (#2028)
eic/EICrecon: AGENTS.md

./eic-shell
```

**Alternative if /cvmfs is available:**
```bash
singularity exec /cvmfs/singularity.opensciencegrid.org/eicweb/eic_xl:nightly eic-shell
```

**Setup geometry and clone EICrecon:**
```bash
source /opt/detector/epic-main/bin/thisepic.sh
git clone https://github.com/eic/EICrecon
cd EICrecon
```

### Build Process

**Configure and build (NEVER CANCEL - Build takes 30-60 minutes):**
```bash
cmake -B build -S . -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=install
cmake --build build --target install -- -j8
```

**CRITICAL TIMING WARNING: Set timeout to 90+ minutes. Build can take 30-60 minutes even with ccache. NEVER CANCEL long-running builds.**

**Alternative debug build:**
```bash
cmake -B build -S . -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=install -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
cmake --build build --target install -- -j8
```

**Setup environment to use the build:**
```bash
source install/bin/eicrecon-this.sh
```

### Testing

**Run unit tests (NEVER CANCEL - Tests take 15-30 minutes):**
```bash
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$PWD/install/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
export JANA_PLUGIN_PATH=$PWD/install/lib/EICrecon/plugins${JANA_PLUGIN_PATH:+:${JANA_PLUGIN_PATH}}
ctest --test-dir build -V
```

> **Test plugin loading (basic validation):**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# EICrecon Development Instructions

EICrecon is a JANA-based reconstruction software for the ePIC detector. This is a complex high-energy physics reconstruction software requiring specialized dependencies and extensive build times.

**ALWAYS follow these instructions first and fallback to additional search and context gathering only if the information in these instructions is incomplete or found to be in error.**

## Working Effectively with EICrecon

### Essential Setup: Use eic-shell Environment

**CRITICAL: This is the ONLY recommended approach for development. Manual dependency installation is complex and strongly discouraged.**

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

git clone https://github.com/eic/EICrecon
cd EICrecon
```

### Build Process

**Configure and build (NEVER CANCEL - Build takes 30-60 minutes):**
```bash
cmake -B build -S . -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=install
cmake --build build --target install -- -j8
```

**CRITICAL TIMING WARNING: Set timeout to 90+ minutes. Build can take 30-60 minutes even with ccache. NEVER CANCEL long-running builds.**

**Alternative debug build:**
```bash
cmake -B build -S . -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=install -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
cmake --build build --target install -- -j8
```

**Setup environment to use the build:**
```bash
source install/bin/eicrecon-this.sh
```

### Testing

**Run unit tests (NEVER CANCEL - Tests take 15-30 minutes):**
```bash
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$PWD/install/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
export JANA_PLUGIN_PATH=$PWD/install/lib/EICrecon/plugins${JANA_PLUGIN_PATH:+:${JANA_PLUGIN_PATH}}
ctest --test-dir build -V
```

**Test basic functionality:**
```bash
eicrecon --help
```

Expected output shows usage information with options like `-h`, `-v`, `-c`, `-Pkey=value`, etc.

**Test plugin loading (basic validation):**
```bash
eicrecon -Pplugins=podio,dd4hep
```

> 

Reviewer: This doesn't actually work (loads plugins in addition to the default list)
```suggestion
```

**NEVER CANCEL these operations - they are expected to take significant time:**

| Operation | Expected Time | Minimum Timeout |
|-----------|---------------|-----------------|
| Initial build | 30-60 minutes | 90 minutes |
| Incremental build | 5-15 minutes | 30 minutes |
| Full test suite | 15-30 minutes | 45 minutes |
| Individual test | 1-5 minutes | 10 minutes |
| Manual dependency build | 4-8 hours | Not recommended |

**Use appropriate timeouts for all long-running commands. The CI system uses ccache and parallel builds which can still take significant time.**

## Common Issues and Solutions

**Build fails with missing dependencies:**
- Ensure you're in eic-shell environment
- Run `source /opt/detector/epic-main/bin/thisepic.sh`
- Check CMake configuration output for specific missing packages

**Tests fail:**
- Verify environment setup: `source install/bin/eicrecon-this.sh`
- Check library paths are correct
- Run individual failing tests for detailed output

**Performance issues:**
- Use `-j8` for parallel builds (adjust number based on available cores)
- Consider using ccache for repeated builds
- Debug builds are significantly slower than Release builds

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## CI/CD Integration

The project uses GitHub Actions with the following key checks:
- Builds on multiple compilers (GCC, Clang)
- Multiple build types (Release, Debug)
- Address, Thread, and UB sanitizers
- clang-tidy and include-what-you-use checks
- Extensive physics simulation and reconstruction tests

**All commits must pass these checks. Run local builds and tests before pushing.**

> 

Reviewer: CI is not important for this, check names should be self-explanatory
```suggestion
```

## Data Files and Physics Validation

**Physics reconstruction requires specific input data formats:**
- Input: `.edm4hep.root` files (simulated physics events)
- Output: `.edm4eic.root` files (reconstructed physics data)

**Sample reconstruction command:**
```bash
export DETECTOR_CONFIG=${DETECTOR}_craterlake
eicrecon -Ppodio:output_file=output.edm4eic.root input_simulation.edm4hep.root
```

> **For physics validation, you need appropriate simulation files. The CI system generates these automatically.**

Reviewer: Not actionable without much more context.
```suggestion
For physics validation, you need appropriate simulation files. Generate one for single particles using:

    ddsim --compactFile $DETECTOR_PATH/$DETECTOR_CONFIG.xml --numberOfEvents 10 --enableGun --gun.thetaMin 'pi/2' --gun.thetaMax 'pi/2' --gun.distribution uniform --gun.phiMin '0*deg' --gun.phiMax '0*deg' --gun.energy '1*GeV' --gun.particle 'e-' --outputFile sim.edm4hep.root

or using full physics events with multiple particles:

    ddsim --compactFile $DETECTOR_PATH/$DETECTOR_CONFIG.xml --numberOfEvents 10 --inputFiles root://dtn-eic.jlab.org//volatile/eic/EPIC/EVGEN/DIS/NC/10x100/minQ2=10/pythia8NCDIS_10x100_minQ2=10_beamEffects_xAngle=-0.025_hiDiv_1.hepmc3.tree.root --outputFile sim.edm4hep.root

```

#include <cmath>
#include <memory>
#include <vector>

#include <DD4hep/Detector.h>
#include <JANA/JApplication.h>
#include <edm4eic/ClusterCollection.h>
#include <fmt/core.h>

#include "algorithms/calorimetry/CalorimeterHitDigi.h"
#include "services/geometry/dd4hep/DD4hep_service.h"
#include "services/log/Log_service.h"
```

**IWYU enforcement:** The CI system runs include-what-you-use with `--reorder` and `fix_includes.py --reorder` to automatically detect and fix header ordering violations. If headers are not properly sorted:
- CI will fail with IWYU violations
- An automatic PR may be created with header fixes
- Manual fixes must sort headers alphabetically within each group

**When editing existing code:**
- Always maintain alphabetical ordering when adding new headers
- **Use angle brackets `<>` for system and third-party headers, quotes `""` for project headers**
- Check that new headers are placed in the correct group (system, third-party, or project)
- Respect existing blank line separations between header groups
- Use the IWYU mapping file (`.github/iwyu.imp`) rules for header substitutions

## Conventional Commits and Breaking Changes

### Commit Message Format

> **CRITICAL: All pull requests must follow the [Conventional Commits specification](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) to clearly highlight breaking changes.**

Reviewer: This is not a policy document, so nothing in it can be "must"
```suggestion
It is acceptable to use [Conventional Commits specification](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/)
```

**Standard commit message format:**
```
<type>[optional scope]: <description>

[optional body]

[optional footer(s)]
```

**Common commit types:**
- `feat:` - New features
- `fix:` - Bug fixes
- `docs:` - Documentation changes
- `style:` - Code style changes (formatting, etc.)
- `refactor:` - Code refactoring without functional changes
- `test:` - Adding or modifying tests
- `chore:` - Maintenance tasks, build changes
- `perf:` - Performance improvements

**Examples of conventional commit messages:**
```
feat(tracking): add silicon tracker hit reconstruction
fix(calorimetry): correct energy calibration for ECAL clusters
docs(readme): update build instructions for new dependencies
refactor(algorithms): simplify cluster formation algorithm
test(tracking): add unit tests for track fitting
```

### Breaking Changes in EICrecon Context

**CRITICAL: Use `BREAKING CHANGE:` footer or `!` suffix for any changes that affect user workflows.**

**Consider as breaking changes:**

1. **Command-line interface changes:**

>    - Removal or renaming of `eicrecon` command-line options

Reviewer: Never happens
```suggestion
```

   - Changes to argument parsing that affect existing scripts
   - Modifications to configuration parameter names or behavior
   - Changes to plugin loading syntax or requirements

2. **Output collection changes:**
   - Renaming of output collection names (e.g., `EcalBarrelClusters` → `ECALClusters`)
   - Removal of existing output collections that users depend on
   - Significant changes to collection content structure or data members
   - Changes to default output file naming conventions

**Examples of breaking change commits:**
```
feat!: change ECAL cluster collection name for consistency

BREAKING CHANGE: EcalBarrelClusters collection renamed to ECALBarrelClusters
to match naming convention. Update analysis scripts to use new name.

feat(cli): add new reconstruction mode option

BREAKING CHANGE: --mode argument now required for eicrecon execution.
Add --mode=default to existing scripts to maintain current behavior.

refactor(algorithms): restructure tracking output collections

BREAKING CHANGE: TrackCandidates collection split into ReconstructedTracks
and TrackParameters. Analysis code must be updated to use new collections.
```

> 

Reviewer: Iffy examples
```suggestion
```
